[Music]
let's get out of the way I'm a
millennium a member of the generation
born between 1981 and 1996
that's often hotly maligned by the media
and older generations as lazy shallow
spoiled narcissistic materialistic and
obsessed with celebrity popular cinema
has played a significant role in
enshrining that reputation consider the
shenanigans unfolding on your screen
right now the group of blank-eyed teens
brazenly robbing a celebrity swanky la
pad
this stranger than fiction true tale was
dramatized by Sofia Coppola in her icy
drama The Bling Ring a damning statement
on a wayward generation you can follow
everything about me and my journey at
mickeymo forever calm cinema has offered
up indelible images of Millennials as
smug hipsters or as bored lost
vapid types hopelessly enraptured by
fancy clothes
shiny baubles and material things to the
detriment of our souls mush seriously
look at all his I got designer
t-shirts
I got Scarface on repeat constant y'all
I gotta skate Calvin Klein escape look
at my
but Pierre a little closer and it
becomes clear that cinema has also been
useful in complicating the millennial
picture illuminating the often dark
violent anxiety inducing backdrop
against which this generation has come
of age take elephant Gus Van Sant's
stark Steadicam shocker
which used the horrific Columbine
massacre of 1999 for inspiration and has
remained horribly relevant in the wake
of a constant stream of school shootings
or Kenneth Lonergan's cult classic
Margarette which explored the traumatic
after-effects of the 9/11 attacks on the
teenage psyche and what about the
mind-bending generation-defining
developments in technology David
Fincher's sly sharp the social network
painted an early portrait of a pivotal
millennial whose own personal
insecurities set the tone for much
electronic communication to come
uncertainty tension paranoia a Wi-Fi
connection sure but a spiritual one
Kristen Stewart's haunted personal
shopper leaves things beautifully
ambiguous my name is Edward Snowden I go
way ahead
and as the oscar-winning documentary
citizen for showed it's not paranoia if
they really are watching you in this
intimate portrait of whistleblower
Edward Snowden director Laura Poitras
fashioned a generational hero an
antagonist to Mark Zuckerberg in a
titanic struggle for the Millennial soul
but who is telling these stories so far
I've been talking about older filmmakers
from the previous generational cohort
Generation X Poitras Fincher Coppola Van
Sant even Barry Jenkins with the
gorgeous decade spanning moonlight or
Richard Linklater with boyhood his epic
testament to the beauty of banality it's
constant the moments it's just it's like
it's always right now what about the
perspective of the younger crowd
embodying the funny but lonely Francis
ha in Noah Baumbach eponymous comedy
Greta Gerwig became an instant
millennial icon but she really came into
her own with her solo debut as writer
director the perceptive and richly
detailed Lady Bird a watershed moment
for the millennial film autobiography
and a keen portrait of post 9/11 America
what about terrorism choppy Republican
indeed perhaps the most authentic and
enduring portrayals of millennial life
have sprung from the generations own
orders consider the restless anxiety an
unabashed queer sexuality pulsating
through the hyperactive films of
prolific Canadian prodigy xavier dolan
for ryan coogler tender reconstruction
of the stolen life Fruitvale station a
gently devastating film that amplifies
the anxieties are simply existing as a
black millennial in America or the
stirring activist portrait whose streets
a self documented study of a generation
mobilizing organizing and protesting for
recognition of the fact that black lives
matter few films though have portrayed
millennial life with more heartbreaking
honesty than Bing Liu's stunning
documentary minding the gap it
chronicles Luke who started shooting in
2003 when he was 14 and his tight-knit
group of friends on the streets of
struggling post-industrial Rockford
Illinois
what begins as an unusually compelling
skate video blossoms into a wrenching
tale of family woes personal scars and
the effects of the 2008 economic crash
it's fluid access and high-grade images
are made possible by the technology
easily available to this generation if
minding the gap is an elegy for
millennial youth then Grady Core Bay's
bananas Vox luxe is its baptism of fire
this ambitious film is nothing less than
an origin story for a generation that as
we've seen has been birthed in former
anxiety violence and the struggle for
self definition I just wanted a place to
channel that anxiety and suffering into
something tangible something positive
Vox Lux is the sprawling account of a 13
year old musical prodigy who survives a
horrific column by an s school shooting
on the cusp of the new millennium and
grows up to be a terminally anxious pop
star played with scenery-chewing glee by
millennial icon Natalie Portman
[Music]
[Applause]
the film is nor it alarming stuff but
beyond the viciousness and violence the
shock and awe it's also a story of
resilience and ultimately hope it's a
millennial clarion call a stirring
portrait of a troubled generation
surviving and eventually thriving
against the odds
[Music]
you